Design Description

This design will contain 4 classes: TriageApplication, Patient, VitalSigns, and Symptoms. 

A patient will have the following attributes: name (string), birthdate (date), health card number (int), arrival time (date), vital signs (list), symptoms (list), urgency (int), date/time seen by doctor (date), and status (string). If the date/time seen by doctor is empty and does not contain a date/time value, then the patient has not been seen by a doctor yet. The urgency of a patient will be categorized with an integer from 1 to 4 based the hospital policy using the patient’s age and most recent vital sign records (temperature, blood pressure, heart rate). Each of the attributes in the patient class will be private to control access. Public getter and setter methods will be used to access these fields. 

The vital signs class will contain the following fields: temperature (double), blood pressure (int), heart rate (int), and time (date). Each patient will have a list of vital sign objects. This will allow the nurses to view current data, as well as older data. To record new vital signs, the update vital signs method in the patient class will append new vital signs data to the patient’s list of vital signs. Thus the last item in the list will be the most recent record. Each time vital signs are updated, the patient’s urgency will be recalculated, and their status will be changed to “improving” or “worsening”.

The symptoms class will contain the attributes: description (string), and time (date). Nurses can update a patient’s symptoms using the update symptoms method in the patient class. This will allow them to input a string description, and the new symptom description will be appended to the patient’s list of symptom descriptions, along with the time. 

When a nurse launches the triage application, saved data will be loaded by the load saved data method if a file exists. The triage application class will contain a method to add a new patient with the specified attributes. The patient will be added to the patient list. When new data is recorded, nurses can run the save collected data method to save all patient data to a file. In addition, the triage application class will contain a method to lookup a patient’s records by health card number. Nurses can also access a list of patients using the get patient list method. This method will return a list of patients who have not yet been seen by a doctor, ordered by the argument of either decreasing urgency or arrival time (least recent to most recent).